Contact
douglas.dcm@gmail.com
www.linkedin.com/in/douglascardosom (LinkedIn)
Core competencies
Test automation
Testing
Test management
Languages
English (Full Professional)
French (Elementary)
Spanish (Professional Working)
Certifications
ISTQB Certified Tester Foundation
Level
HP QuickTest
Certified Tester Foundation Level - HP
Performance Testing
Douglas Cardoso, CTFLPT
SDET (Software Development Engineer in Test) | Daitan Group
Belo Horizonte, Brazil
Summary
I am a Mathematics graduate, post-graduated in Artificial Intelligence
Artificial Intelligence, Systems Analysis and Design, and Information Technology
and Information Technology Management. Author of the project TestRock! https://goo.gl/CbjbXB.
Since 2010 I work in the area of software testing and quality and
and process quality.
I have ISTQB - Certified Tester Foundation Level/
Performance Testing, HP QuickTest 11.
I am an expert in the tools: HP ALM, HP Performance Center,
AutoCad, JMeter and Excel.
Experience
Daitan Group
SDET(Software Development Engineer in Test)
May 2021 - Present (4 months)
Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil
CESAR
Software Quality Engineer
October 2020 - May 2021 (8 months)
Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil
Modular Mining
Software QA Engineer
April 2019 - October 2020 (1 year 7 months)
Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil
FITec
Sr Software Test Analyst
December 2017 - April 2019 (1 year 5 months)
Belo Horizonte and Region, Brazil
Acting in the Ericsson RM project performing the planning/execution
of non-functional software testing such as performance, stability
security, robustness and installation.
Page 1 of 4
Publisher Pages
Illustrator of the book Poli Chooses
January 2019 - February 2019 (2 months)
Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais
Illustration of the children's book Poli Escolhe
https://www.paginaseditora.com.br/product-page/poli-escolhe
Cybertecnica
IT Consultant
October 2010 - December 2017 (7 years 3 months)
Sao Paulo
Quality Assurance - Business Technology Optimization - software solutions
that allow the efficient management of processes, resources and priorities of the
IT area, maximizing the quality, performance and availability of the
quality, performance, and availability of business applications.
Project monitoring, requirements gathering from the end user to model solutions
to model solutions compatible with the customer's needs,
generation of reports, automation of functional and performance test scripts, execution
performance, execution and documentation of test evidence.
Tools used:
HP Quality Center
HP Performance Center
HP QuickTest (certified)
Main Projects:
Vale SA
Strategic support to project management;
Preparation of management reports;
Compliance assessment of testing processes and consistency of
consistency of information for management reports;
Support and training in HP ALM and Jira tool.
Quality assurance.
(1 year)
Migration of over 100 projects from HP QC 9.2 to HP ALM 11 (6 months)
Automation of functional scripts using HP QuickTest (2 months)
Site performance analysis using HP Performance Center (1 year)
Petrobras
Page 2 of 4
Defect management and functionality customization in HP QC 10;
Test automation team support (6 months)
Cetip
Project migration and implementation of HP ALM 11.52 (1 month)
Deployment of unit testing process for DEV team using
HP ALM 11.52 (2 months)
Unisinos
Integrated migration of HP BAC 8 tools to HP BSM 9.24, over
2000 monitors from HP SiteScope, HP BPM, HP ALM and HP LR scripts (1
month)
TestRock!
Content Generator
January 2017 - March 2017 (3 months)
Belo Horizonte Area, Brazil
Various styles of software testing, trivia, tools and all in
portuguese.
Excenge - Engineering Excellence ltda.
Project Designer Cadista
March 2008 - March 2010 (2 years 1 month)
Rio de janeiro
Team coordination of cadastral designers.
Development of piping projects for petroleum products in storage bases as well as their respective flowcharts.
in storage bases as well as their respective flow charts,
forms, reinforcement, metallic structures, drainage, fire fighting and material
and material survey.
Drawing of topographical and planialtimetric plans, master plans, parts and
mechanical equipment and image digitalization.
Creation of commands and applications for AutoCad - autolisp and DCL - directed
the practice of civil engineering, mechanical, industrial electrical and hydraulic
hydraulic, building installations, architecture, urban planning, material counting and general
and general use.
Academic background
Pontifical Catholic University of Minas Gerais
Page 3 of 4
Post-graduation, Artificial Intelligence and
Machine Learning - (2019 - 2020)
Pontifical Catholic University of Minas Gerais
Extension, Agile Project Management - (2017 - 2017)
Pontifical Catholic University of Minas Gerais
Post-graduation in Information Technology Management, Information Technology
Information - (2015 - 2016)
PUC-Rio
Postgraduate in Systems Analysis and Design, Informatics - (2011 - 2012)
UERJ - Rio State University 

Translated with www.DeepL.com/Translator (free version)